Title page:

jHUB
Pioneering Open Tech Innovation for South Sudan
OPEN HARDWARE GUIDE


#ASKotek

Open Hardware 
Introduction

Open Hardware (OH) or “Open Source Hardware (OSHW) is a term for tangible artifacts — machines, devices, or other physical things — whose design has been released to the public in such a way that anyone can make, modify, distribute, and use those things.”[1]

The general benefits of open source methods and open tech innovation are:

    • Access to knowledge and product designs
    • Fast and distributed exchange of skills and knowledge
    • Accelerated innovation due to collaborative development
    • Low development costs and more expertise 
    • Easy adaptation and customization 

What do you need for Open Tech Innovation?

    • Tools & Materials: 	depends on the technology 
				Always try local sourcing first!
    • License Example:	A proper license for the product design
        ◦ for design-files, digital work:	cc-by-sa (Creative Commons)[2]
        ◦ for hardware, functionality:		CERN OHL (OH License)[3]
    • Open Source Software: Linux and platform independent if possible
        ◦ Examples: see section →Resources

Open Tech Linux Software Installation
(on Ubuntu based OS)
Please run:
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade

sudo apt install gdebi software-properties-common libavcodec-extra ffmpeg redshift firefox libreoffice shutter vlc pinta pdfshuffler geogebra darktable gthumb trash-cli gimp inkscape openshot kazam audacity kdenlive freecad librecad fritzing kicad
-----

[1] www.oshwa.org/definition
[2] www.creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/ 
[3] www.ohwr.org/cernohl 

ASKotek
Access to Skills and Knowledge – Open Tech Emergency Kit
Freely shareable and collaboration based Open Technologies are a form of Open Source that can also act as accelerators for peace and empowerment. 

A versatile, robust and mobile trainer’s kit with 40 items designed to tackle a range of basic education, innovation and self-training challenges #ASKotek enables ‘Access to Skills & Development’ in the field ... anywhere!

This basic Open Tech Kit provides tools and materials to learn and distribute knowledge and product development. 
The set contains:
    • Basic electronics and connections
    • Soldering and cutting tools
    • Mechanical and measurement tools
    • A Linux computer and some adapters
    • Guidelines and additional things to get creative and start innovation on the spot

The kit can be used on site, in the field and can function as a startup tool-set for building a co-working space, learning hub or any other innovation community setup. 
It is designed to be modular, mobile and adaptable to any location or situation to share knowledge and empower innovation.
#ASKotek was created by the participants of the Let’s Go jHUB project.




ASKotec Content List:

Access to Skills and Knowledge - open tech emergency kit

    1. books (1 jHUB booklet, 1 solar book, 1 Open Learning Guide)
    2. 1 small trainers notepad
    3. 1 blue HP notebook (Linux Elementary OS installed)
    4. 1 clipboard with paper
    5. 1 protractor / square rule
    6. 1 pencil pouch (pen, pencil, ruler, cutter, 9V battery w/ wire connection, USB current meter, small Post-It Notes, highlighter, pencil sharpener, saw blades, small brush, 16GB USB memory stick)
    7. twine
    8. 1 pair of scissors
    9. 1 'helping hand' tool with magnifying glass 
    10. 1 travel plug adapter
    11. 1 upgrade electronics kit
    12. 1 little electronics box (incl. solar charger pieces)
    13. 1 first aid kit incl. burn ointment
    14. 3 circuit boards
    15. 2 bread boards
    16. 4 x 4V solar panels
    17. 12V solar panel with adapter (in box)
    18. foam padding for PC
    19. small multimeter
    20. crocodile clips, jumper wires, twin wires
    21. 2 packets of 4 rechargeable AA batteries (2000 mAh)
    22. 3 x AA battery cases with switch
    23. 1 bag of switches
    24. 1 big multimeter
    25. 1 soldering kit (3 extra wires, 2 rolls of solder, 1 sucker, 1 solder iron + stand, 1 pack of extra tips, soldering grease and solder remover)
    26. 1 wire stripper
    27. 1 universal mobile phone repair tool set
    28. assorted heat shrink tubes
    29. 1 pack of 4 USB plugs
    30. 2 sizes zip ties (black - short, colour - long)
    31. 1 small hacksaw
    32. 1 pair chopsticks
    33. 1 mechanical tool set (Black and Decker)
    34. disposable cleaning pads
    35. 2 sizes of small zip-lock bags (150 and 380 ml)
    36. 1 LED light strip
    37. 1 ASKotek table of contents + packing / unpacking guide 
    38. 1 small combination padlock (for locking case itself)
    39. 1 coloured combination chain lock (for locking case to something secure)
    40. 1 black dustproof / waterproof hard case 520 x 415 x 195 mm
Open Tech Skills
Training and Team

Open Tech Training Skills
List for text version of the post-it note image

Experience
Creativity
Knowledge
Good Listening
Time Management Skills
Mission
Hands-on Skills
Improvisations
Basic Tool Skills
Motivational Skill
Hopeful
Entertaining
Passionate
Social Skills
Explanation Skills
Word Skills
Technical Skills
Commitment
Approachability
Flexibility
Visionable



Resources
OPEN TECH, OPEN HARDWARE + ELECTRONICS

MOZILLA WEB LITERACY
https://learning.mozilla.org/en-US/web-literacy
Web literacy 21st Century Skills: Problem-Solving, Communication, Creativity, Collaboration. Share, design, code, compose, remix, navigate, connect, open practice, contribute.

OPEN! METHODS & TOOLS FOR COMMUNITY-BASED PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
opensourcedesign.cc 
Current practices of open source product development & concrete guidance to support design process efficiency of open source product development projects.

OPEN SOURCE HARDWARE ASSOCIATION
https://www.oshwa.org/
Open hardware community ensuring technological knowledge is accessible to everyone. Collaborative development of technology that serves education, environmental sustainability, and human welfare.

OPEN SOURCE EDUCATION
https://opensource.com/education/13/4/guide-open-source-education
A guide to free and open source education. Stories about creating, adopting, and sharing open source solutions.

AFRIMAKERS
http://www.afrimakers.org
Empowers makers in Africa to develop sustainable projects using rapid prototyping to solve local challenges.

APPROPEDIA
http://www.appropedia.org/Welcome_to_Appropedia
Sharing knowledge to build rich, sustainable lives.

IFIXIT
https://www.ifixit.com/
The free repair guide for everything, written by everyone. 

INSTRUCTABLES
http://www.instructables.com/ 
Share what you make with the world, and tap into an ever-growing community of creative experts. Participate in make-a-thons through the platform. Add your own instructables.

OPEN SOURCE ECOLOGY
http://opensourceecology.org/
Open source industrial machines can be made for a fraction of commercial costs, designs shared online free, to create an open source economy which increases innovation by open collaboration.

WIKIFAB
http://wikifab.org/
Open source hardware documentation platform. Tutorials to make anything, written by everyone.

WIKI-HOW  
http://www.wikihow.com/
“We're trying to help everyone on the planet learn how to do anything. Join us.”
-----
Open Hardware Process
Documentation Principals 

One key instrument of Open Hardware is clear documentation. In order to stay on track while developing or adapting a product, it is highly recommended to document the process to create an easy pattern to follow: → Open Hardware Guide. This saves time and prototyping iterations.
Therefore good sketches and pictures of the steps are needed, that trace the development process clearly and simply in the order that it happens. The following template might help as you take important notes along the way:
Project: Name and Team
Date and Step/Workday
CC-BY-SA (digital) CERN OHL (hardware)
Open Process Documentation (OPD) – Nr #

Steps:											Notes:
    •  
    •  
    • 
Flops:

Tops:
Open Questions:								marked as solved:
[  ]   
[  ]   
[  ]   
. . .   

Steps: 			Follow all working procedures & note the process 				step-by-step in the order it happens. Keep it clear 					and simple, note additional tips or details.
Flops & Tops:		What went wrong and should be avoided? 
				What went right and is noted as best practice?

Open Questions:	What challenges, problems still need to be solved?
			
Open Hardware Guide
Open Process Documentation

Using your Open Process Documentation (OPD) the next part is to create a clean and visualized Open Tech Guide for the current version. 
This Guide is key to empower further development and innovation.
The following template is given as a best practice reference:
 
Project: Name and Team
Date of release 
CC-BY-SA (digital) CERN OHL (hardware)
Open Hardware Guide | Version Nr. #

Steps:
    1.  
    2.  
    3.  
    4.  
    5.  
    6.  
    7.  
    8.  
    9.  
    10.  ...

Tools:
    1.  
    2.  
    3.  


Materials
    1.  
    2.  
    3.  


Tips and Usage
    •  
    • 
Possible Improvements
    •  
    • 
Open Questions
    •  
    • 


+ References (add web URL links) if available


Solar Charger
Open Hardware Guide

Project: Solar Charger
Date: 26th November 2016
CC-BY-SA (digital) CERN OHL (hardware)
Open Hardware Guide

[Pictures] + Diagram SolarCharger
Steps:
    1. Draw diagram of the charger for easy understanding (optional)
    2. Open your ASKotek kit for tools
    3. Get circuit board and solder the diode and LED in place
    4. Solder the resistor in the front of the LED
    5. Connect to the LED lights to the negative side
    6. Solder the capacitors with long side connected to the outer regulator legs
    7. Fix regulator with black side facing you and connect between diode and resistor
    8. Connect the other side of the regulator to the capacitor  (long side connected)
    9. Connect all the negatives sides together
    10. Cross the middle pin to the negative with side to LED
    11. Behind the diode (1. option) or to the right capacitor connect the positive wire from solar panel
    12. And the other negative to the negative side
    13. Connect female USB. Positive on red and negative on black
    14. Test the Solar Charger in the sun
 
Tools:
    1. Color-coded wire (red and black)
    2. Soldering iron
    3. Soldering grease
    4. Soldering Sucker
    5. Helping hand (magnifier & clamps)
    6. Soldering wires

Materials
    1. Solar panel 8V +/- 250mA
    2. Resistor 1200 Ohm (1. option)
Resistor 600 Ohm (2. option)
    3. 1 Diode
    4. Capacitor one 10 µF
    5. Capacitor two 100 µF
    6. Female USB
    7. 5V Regulator
    8. Circuit board
    9. LED light (red one)

Tips and Usage
1.     Can be used for charging phones
2.     Environmentally friendly
3.     Saves money
4.   Test with mobile phone or LED light
Open for improvements
    • Build a casing
Open Questions:
    • How to find + and – wires on female USB (if not red and black)?
    • What if somebody is surrounded with no material, how to use old electronics?


LED Light
Open Hardware Guide

Project: LED light (rechargeable)
Date: 26th November 2016
CC-BY-SA (digital) CERN OHL (hardware)
Open Hardware Guide

[Pictures] + Diagram LED

Steps:
    1. Measure battery voltage
    2. Calculate and sort out resistors
    3. Measure and cut circuit board
    4. Identify the negative and positive lines
    5. Start to solder the resistors (solder on board)
    6. Solder the big LED lamp
    7. Connect the batteries and LED to the switch
    8. Solder charging red LED
    9. Light up the big LED


Tools:
    4. Breadboard (test circuit board) + wires
    5. Helping hand (magnifier & clamps)
    6. Multimeter
    7. Soldering iron plus support 
    8. Soldering wire

Materials
    4. Resistors (600, 25, 10 Ohm)
    5. USB (male)
    6. Red LED 2V
    7. Big white LED 3V
    8. Switch
    9. Diode

Tips and Usage
    1. Draw your own electrical current diagram
    2. Take safety measures while handling soldering iron
    3. Always test on a breadboard before soldering
Possible Improvements
    • Show red LED only when charging
    • Build a casing
Open Questions
    • How to prevent the battery from discharging too much over time with simple electronics?

 

Phone Stand
Open Hardware Guide

Project: Phone Stand
Date: 26th November 2016
CC-BY-SA (digital) CERN OHL (hardware)
Open Hardware Guide

[Pictures]
Steps:
    1. preparation of working space 
    2. get the cardboard and place on the table    
    3. measure the length and thickness of the phone and chose outside measure
    4. start cutting the back of the phone holder
    5. measure the phone holder part if not done already and cut the phone stand.
    6. cut the side flips and glue them together, depending on the phone size
    7. cover it with duct/gaffer tape (optional)
    8. Insert the phone in the back of the phone holder
    9. join the top flap with stand using paper clips. 

Tools:
    1. scissors
    2. ruler
    3. cutter
    4. flat space mobile phone
    5. marker pen

Materials
    1. cardboards
    2. liquid glue
    3. paper clips
    4. tape (optional) 

Tips and Usage
    1. keep away from water
    2. portable, flexible and easy to maintain 

Possible Improvements
    1. make some extra holes on phone holder in order to charge your phone directly.
    2. make extra holes for the headset 
    3. make holes to support the volume side 

Open Questions
    • What other materials are possible?




PARTNER ORGNISATIONS 

KAPITAL, an acronym standing for Knowledge - Afro-Invennotion - Peace - Information - Technology - Agroveterinary - Liberal Health is a Juba based grass-roots video, sound production, ICT and community training organisation. Running what it called a 'Virtual Academy' KAPITAL operated as an independent peer-to-peer collective of young designers, filmmakers, IT professionals and artists working to train each other in viable media oriented skills. Tapping the hopes, aspirations and dedication to create a new future beyond conflict KAPITAL established jHUB in late 2015, also initiating the first #peacehackcamp. 

icebauhaus is the German partner in the international icehubs-network of green-tech & social innovation hubs, geared towards a bottom-up strategy that combines both local and international trends with state-of-the-art technological developments. icebauhaus’ work is primarily project-based and community oriented. The members are experts in various academic disciplines, entrepreneurs and generalists with a great deal of background experience in international cooperation. Main expertise and experiences: ICT in agriculture [ICT4ag], experimental building & low-cost housing, techhubs, maker spaces and innovation networks.

r0g_agency for open culture and critical transformation gGmbH focuses on model social innovation and peacebuilding projects embedded primarily in communities experiencing post-conflict development. Its network aims to influence policy from the ground up, to inform and create more robust forms of civil society outcomes – bringing together arts, culture, open technologies and hands-on action for empowerment and skills training. r0g_agency’s work taps into the power and breadth of contemporary free and public domain resources including open educational resources [OERs], free open source software [FOSS], open hardware, open data and open knowledge repositories.

Started in 2010 as the first technology innovation and incubation space in Uganda, Hive Colab has a passion for solving the country’s social and economic challenges, including introducing more women to tech entrepreneurship. Hive Colab has worked with over 300 youths in economic empowerment through computer science training and human centered design idea generation. As a result, over 50 social tech businesses and enterprises have been created and supported. 

PROJECT FUNDING & CREDITS
Let's Go jHUB (#LGJ) is funded by the German Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) through its programme of “Support for Media, Access to Information and Freedom of Expression”. jHUB and the project partner organisations are members of the Global Innovation Gathering (GIG), a network which  hosted the 'Let's Go jHUB' workshops and activities in neighbouring countries in 2016.

This Open Hardware Guide is an outcome of  the "Let's Go jHUB" workshops in open technologies hosted by Hive Colab in Kampala and the Panyadoli Self-Help Secondary School in Bweyale, Uganda in November 2016. It is intended to act as an example of hands-on skills possibilities in open hardware methodologies, acting as a  introduction to resources and as a tangible tool for trainers, facilitators and anyone interested in exploring open technologies. 

http://jubahub.org/
http://icebauhaus.com/
http://openculture.agency/
https://hivecolab.org/

#LGJ #openculture #ASKotek 

Open Hardware Guide v.1 
Hive Colab, Kampala November 2016
Design: Adam Ferns
Assembled & Edited by Jodi Rose

CCBYSA – License (logo)
PARTNER & FUNDER LOGOS
